Hey! In this walkthrough, I'm going to show you
step-by-step how to use a free tool
called Machine Learning for Kids
to train your own AI model —
and then test it out.
It takes about 15 minutes
and you don't need to install anything.
Let's go!
First, open your browser and go to:
machinelearningforkids.co.uk
You'll see this homepage.
Click "Get started."
You can log in with a school account,
or use "Try it without registering" to jump straight in.
Once you're in, click "Add a new project."
Give your project a name.
Let's call it "Animal Classifier."
For the type, select "images" —
we're going to train it to recognize images.
Then click "Create."
Boom — your project exists!
Click on it to open it.
You'll see three stages:
Train, Learn & Test, and Make.
We'll go through all three.
Click "Train."
This is where you add your training data.
Click "Add new label"
and type your first category.
Let's do "cat."
Now add another label: "dog."
Now we need examples.
Click "Add example" under cat.
You can take a picture with your camera,
or upload an image from your computer.
Add at least 10 examples per category —
the more the better!
Mix up your angles, backgrounds, and lighting.
The AI needs variety to learn well.
Go back and click "Learn & Test."
Then click the big "Train new machine learning model" button.
This sends your labeled images to a cloud server
that trains your model.
It usually takes 1–3 minutes.
You'll see a progress bar.
While you're waiting — this is exactly what we talked about
in the animated video!
Data going in, model being trained, accuracy coming out.
It's done! You can see your model's accuracy.
Now let's test it.
Click "Test your model."
Show it a cat picture — or take a photo.
Look at that —
your AI made a prediction!
It says "cat" with 87% confidence.
Let's try a dog.
Nice! It got that right too.
Try a tricky one —
a blurry photo, or one with weird lighting.
See how confident it is.
The third stage is Make —
this is where you can take your model into a real project
in Scratch or a web app.
If you're doing the extension activity,
click "Scratch 3" to open a Scratch editor
with your AI model built right in!
You can see there are special blocks just for your model.
You could build a game where a sprite reacts differently
when it sees a cat vs. a dog!
That's it! You just trained and tested
your own machine learning model.
If you want to make it smarter,
go back to Train and add more examples.
More data, better model —
that's the golden rule of machine learning.
Now go take the Module 4 quiz
and show off what you know. You've got this!